a lot of people don't think through the
consequences of a political
assassination they're concerned with the
assassination itself they're concerned
with the cover-up they're concerned with
the people responsible for the crime
getting away safely but they don't think
through the extent to which the cover-up
itself may implicate the government if
you find signs of concealment
you perhaps cannot prove what is being
concealed but you can still demonstrate
the fact of the concealment itself and
in instances like the assassination of
JFK former President United States or
his brother
RFK the Bobby Kennedy assassination you
have evidence incontrovertible pardon me
incontrovertible evidence of a cover-up
of concealment and that implicates the
government even if you cannot prove what
is being concealed or why so you know
very briefly for example when you look
at the details surrounding the medical
autopsy after the assassination of JFK
you have evidence there of government
responsibility not necessarily for the
killing but yeah if you look into it
pretty obviously it does it doesn't lead
you to conclude the government's problem
with the killing you have evidence there
of concealment that the Mafia could not
possibly be responsible for you have
evidence of concealment that the Cubans
could not be responsible for that the
Russian government could not be smoked I
mentioned these things because in the
past there were people who believed that
the assassination of JFK possibly Russia
Cuba or the American Mafia response
before those people could not possibly
be inside the medical and military
establishment engaged in the cover-ups
of the cover-up itself implicates higher
levels responsibilities within the
American government now there's been a
significant assassination in Cambodia in
2017 by making this video it may
actually become unsafe for me to ever
visit Cambodia again or at least for the
next couple of years I have no plans to
return to Cambodia
and I wonder actually one of the
articles I've read here criticizing the
current situation Cambodia I was
googling trying to figure out if that
journalist is still in Cambodia or if
she'd been been kicked out of exile
because this is not safe to talk about
and just now just recently last couple
months in 2018 a Cambodian woman has
been imprisoned and fine and put on
trial for for making statements on
Facebook suggesting or presuming perhaps
that the government was responsible for
this assassination now I'm gonna read
you a short quotation from a New York
Times article on topic the defendant so
the defendant here being the man who
apparently carried out the assassination
the defendant insisted in court that
chop saw not was his real name he said
that he was an unmarried orphan who grew
up in a province on Cambodia's western
border and that he had earned the money
to buy the gun it says to buy the Glock
the Glock is a brand of a firearm he
earned the money to buy the gun by
working on a casts of a plantation in
Thailand it's a type of low-level
farming employment but nearly every
detail of that story was contradicted by
his mother and his wife they said that
he was neither an orphan Noora migrant
worker but a former forest ranger and
soldier from an entirely different
province they said that they had never
heard the name chops on that before that
that's not his real name and they even
produced a fingerprinted identity card
indicating that the man in the dock the
man in court who was confessing to this
crime was in fact named lethen how who
else could arrange for someone using a
false name to appear in court and take
responsibility for this crime so again
the assassination of RFK Robert Kennedy
who was then running for president
people in McComb Bobby Kennedy people
states he wasn't yet president says most
people think he would have won the
election the assassin his assassination
it did have a patsy there was a man who
was assigned guilt who was tried and
convicted
the crime but again there are elements
of concealment concealment of evidence
cover-up where if you simply look at the
concealment you don't need to speculate
on what's being concealed who is capable
of that concealment who is capable of
contriving the situation within the
Cambodian court and justice system to
have fake identity papers a fake
identity a fake conviction who could
have arranged us not the Mafia
nothing taught spies from Japan no this
is the problem and I just have to say
this the assassinations of RFK and JFK
were amateur the American authorities
that engage in that were laughably
amateurish in carrying that out it
should be impossible for someone like me
to figure out an assigned responsibility
it should be impossible in Cambodia for
the New York Times to have figure this
out but I mean perhaps nobody expects
such a high level of confidence from the
government of Cambodia but any illusions
we might have about the omnipotence a
very high level of you know competence
of repressive state governments these
are actually instructive examples of in
fact the assassination of JFK was so
amateurish that I've often wondered if
there wasn't dissent within the US
government being intentionally inept
that they weren't intentionally leaving
bread crumbs or signs of what's wrong
because they wanted it to be figured out
by the public that some of the people
following orders were only reluctantly
following orders
so I'm going to read you a little bit
more about the current situation in
Cambodia and you know I've said a long
time ago on this channel there's a sense
in which I make these videos with a
really brokenhearted feeling of of
contempt for my audience actual
potential it's very sad to come on
camera and talk about political issues
that you know matter that you feel are
tremendously important and you know your
audience doesn't care about and you know
there really there isn't a sense no
potential audience that cares about it
that's a very saddening thing whether
I'm talking about the Kree and the
Egyptian First Nations politics
I'm talking about politics in Cambodia
there is no audience for this content
and there is no government concern and
nobody cares and I can only appeal to my
audience to examine their own lack of
concern and engagement because the vast
majority of people watching this video
are vegans and vegans go around all the
time weeping and wringing their hands
and pulling their hair saying why does
nobody care here's this terrible
travesty this crime this you know animal
cruelty the devastation of the
environment this terrible even economic
waste is even an economic argument about
not even treated you know totally kind
of a poor argument for it but whether
you look at ethanol in terms of health
impacts why does nobody care about the
millions of heart attacks and cases of
cancer that can be avoided etc etc right
we have to proceed from the shocking
fact that nobody cares right and the
shocking fact is that situations like
this in Cambodia Thailand and Laos
nobody cares nobody cares even enough to
respond symbolically the Government of
Japan is not even willing to close down
its embassy the Government of Japan is
not willing to lower the Cambodian flag
to half-mast the United Nations is not
willing even symbolically oppose a
situation of what can frankly be called
tyranny and as I described again I have
no inside information I make no claim
that the government of Cambodia is
responsible for this political
assassination III I can't say that it
would be unjust of me to say that was
certainly with certainty what I can say
is that Cambodia today does not meet the
minimum standards of democracy that it
is a tyranny and that the whole world
ought to stand up and close ranks and
cut off Cambodia from the Society of
Nations there are ways to bring a
political change through engagement
through intervention but there's there's
also political change you can bring
about simply through disentanglement the
Canadian government could very easily
ban tourism - can
the Canadian government wouldn't cost
the Canadian government a dime to close
down the Cambodian embassy here or put
the Cambodian flag at half-mast and say
no when you cross certain ethical lines
when you fail to meet certain ethical
standards we don't regard you as a
legitimate democracy anymore and to have
one standard that applies to the whole
world in the year 2018 this would not be
this would not be too much to ask and
indeed this is not even a situation like
Saudi Arabia where there would be
economic consequences to opposing or
questioning the legitimacy of the Saudi
government it would not cost Western
powers now it wouldn't cost Japan a dime
to do the right thing for the right
reason so I read this article titled
states of repression by Miranda Johnson
googling I couldn't find any trace of
her I wonder if the journalist is using
a false name for that reason subtitle
elections in Cambodia and Thailand will
be shams roaming the streets near the
independence monument in phenom famines
this is downtown in the capital city the
Phnom Penh can prove to be a grim tour
critics of the government have met
mysterious ends in the area one Ken Lay
was assassinated over his morning coffee
in a Caltex petrol station in July of
2016 this is now known as chemist Caltex
a local relates with dark humor so I
just pause when I lived in Cambodia it
was prior to this assassination but in
the same way that were different sites
you saw around downtown campus oh yeah
that magazine stand was a magazine a
newspaper stand were an important
politician was actually a labor union
leader who dared to criticize the
government was was gunned down where
different people were killed for daring
to criticize the government and in the
various coup d'etats that established
the power of the Hongshan regime you
know sorry but there was one of the
embassies too where members of
parliament from the opposition party had
been murdered and so on
so there are different sites I mean the
more reading you did the more you
learned about the ghosts of downtown
phenomena and none of this is Khmer
Rouge none of this is Hall the
Democratic modern current history of
Cambodia's we're basically talking about
the 1990s to present
and this news I'm talking about today
this is 2016-17 2018 and current and
ongoing news in Cambodia this is not
ancient history this is not for the
communist period I continue those
worried about Cambodia's elections in
July find such events hard to laugh at
Hun Sen the Prime Minister seized power
in 1985 after the atrocities of the
Khmer Rouge and the intervention of
Vietnamese forces he says he will rule
for another decade the election will do
little to disturb his plans period now
this is a news article but the summary
thereof Cambodian history and House and
Senate came to power this is doing a bit
of an injustice to history okay there
were elections the elections were staged
managed by the United Nations the you
know I'm gonna get upset if I start at
that time um there's a really dark
history here and there's blood on a lot
of people's hands including the United
Nations for what happened there were
elections and those elections probably
were illegitimate to begin with in terms
of the role the United Nations played
and then the United Nations allowed
those elections to be subverted and
overturned and for the loser of the
election to take over government by
armed force what you could call a coup
d'etat or what-have-you but that was not
a bloodless coup d'etat it's true
relatively few people died compared to
the Khmer Rouge regime it's not on the
list of of great mass murder events but
it was not a bloodless coup d'etat right
so I just mentioned that's very briefly
alluding to the the violence that
established the Hun Sen regime in the
first place okay I continue the head of
the opposition so this is the head of
the Opposition electoral party this
isn't some kind of underground resistant
resistance movement this would be like
the head of the Democrat Party in the
Republican a Republican dominate United
States this is the head of the
mainstream Democratic Party that runs
against the the ruling party in in
elections in as much as there are
elections you'll get the sense that the
elections barely exist the head of the
opposition Kem Sokha was arrested on
trumped-up treason charges in September
of 2017 cambodian law forbids convicted
criminals from running in political
parties
the opposition could implode after the
government launched legal action to
dissolve it in October 2017 for
supposedly plotting to topple the regime
voices likely to criticize the crackdown
have been silenced several American
funded funded radio broadcasters were
taken off the air in the weeks after Kem
Sokha is arrest and the country's best
independent newspaper was forced to
closed organizations promoting democracy
and campaigning for Green causes have
been targeted - so we didn't get any
sense of the background to the
assassination of Ken Lay my
understanding is that he was
assassinated because he made some casual
comments mean at that time he had been a
critic of the government for a
relatively long time but he made some
sarcastic comments about a report that
was published by a group called Global
Witness they're a non-profit foundation
and that report was estimating how much
money Hun Sen's family had amassed
through corrupts illegal and illicit
practices while they'd been in power so
they came up with a very round figure of
200 million dollars but apparently he
made some some glib remarks about the
level of corruption and government he
was already a known known and respected
critic of the hunson regime and then he
was not so mysteriously gunned down
intolerance is growing elsewhere in
Southeast Asia in neighboring Thailand
the ruling hunter in charge since a coup
more than three years ago is squeezing
civic society ahead of a promised
election in November 2018 you can check
this on Wikipedia there's a Wikipedia
article which i think is just titled the
next elections in Thailand and they
update that Wikipedia article on the
latest excuses for why these elections
never seem to happen given the polling
has already been delayed three times
some doubt that the vote will occur at
all but even if it were to go ahead and
democracy will be suppressed activities
that undermine the quote-unquote public
peace and order or national security
close quote are forbidden according to
the country's interim Constitution other
statutes prevent groups of more than
five people from gathering sorry I just
repeat that this has come up when I was
talking to vegans about vegan activism
in town
groups of more than five people are
illegal and this is a problem for
politicians who wish to run rallies
you'd have to have a rally with only
four people and punish the authors of
social media posts critical of the
government so yeah again you couldn't
even have a meeting with four people and
then put it on Facebook it is very
common sorry in Thailand if you read the
newspapers that you're always reading
about people going to prison or at least
being going to court having court cases
about things they've said on Facebook
English in Alachua the opposition
figurehead and the democratically
elected prime minister fled Thailand in
August 2017 she jumped ship before she
received the verdict on a trial of her
alleged incompetence in a rice subsidy
scheme which cost the government around
sixteen billion dollars unlike the
military coup that seized power from
mrs. Inga Lux brother in 2006 this Hunta
seems set on sticking around that is
particularly depressing given that the
country was one of Asia's freest just
two decades ago although both Thailand
and Cambodia are monarchies their
respective kings are not expected to
meddle directly in the upcoming
electoral matters sorry I mean it'd be
misleading to say like historically in
the past they haven't been involved this
is really just saying they're not
expected to get involved in the next
year in the events coming up the Thai
kanto will glory in the forthcoming
coronation sorry this this article
obviously from a few months ago the
Taiwan Doble glory in the forthcoming
coronation of the country's new king
maja mahavidya long horn for kau to
voters in thailand and cambodia
meanwhile the year ahead promises to be
anything but glorious of course this
doesn't mention the other country that's
that must be mentioned there which is
Laos Thailand Laos and Cambodia next
door um look thailand alone is a
population of over 70 million people
these things matter and they don't
matter less now that we moved into the
era of social media the death of
conventional journalism etc etc they
matter whether or not you care about
them whether or not anyone in the West
pays attention to them and
I would have been happy to devote my
life to these political issues why
because I could make a positive
difference I went and pursued a
combination of research and humanitarian
work in Southeast Asia for many years I
learned a great deal I came back to
Canada why is it impossible for me to
get a PhD in this field I'm not gonna
answer that question in this video I
just put it out there the real ultimate
problem here isn't personal and
difference or media and difference it's
actually institutional and educational
indifference obviously I do not believe
that every grade six school child in
America or Canada can learn about
Cambodian democracy Thai democracy
lotion democracy or lack thereof frankly
be a wonderful lesson to share with this
crpes it would be you could talk
through with them a bunch of case
studies like this about countries that
Teeter on the brink of absolute Tyranny
the problem with having just a little
bit of democracy as opposed to a real
democracy and these kinds of things
how delicate and difficult it is to
maintain democracy you'll do wonderful
things to talk through with people in
grade six however it is a problem that
even at elite levels of education even
in the Department of Political Science
at the University of Toronto the
Department of Political Science at the
University of Victoria and I've spent
time you guys watch the gym though I've
spent time in the elite departments of
Cambridge England Oxford England I've
spent time in universities great and
small or around at all it is a problem
that all elite levels of education
nobody cares about this there is no
effort to engage the public in this or
it indeed even within government you can
look up the records of debates in the
Canadian Senate that we have nobody at
every at any level who cares about these
things and is gauge of these things and
try to make a positive difference and it
has been impossible for someone like
myself who independently as an
autodidact self-learn
thot want to and gain this kind of
confidence it's impossible for me to
take that competence and turn it into a
credential and thus do something
positive with it make some kind of
difference in the world even if it is
just as a critic and commentator because
you have to be outside of Thailand you
have to be outside of Cambodia you have
to be outside of Laos to be engaged of
these things as a critic and a
commentator this falls in an interesting
ethical category veganism is something
everybody can do it's not just grass
roots it's more grass roots the grass
roots it's grass dirt what could I tell
you anybody can do it anybody can make a
positive difference there are some
ethical problems where your personal
conduct can't make an ethical difference
um this is the difference between
veganism you can just change your diet
make a difference make a difference
ecologically ethically and for your own
health if I want to reduce the number of
accidents on the road it's not enough
for me personally to drive more slowly I
actually need to create speed limits
that everyone will obey how could I do
that
it's not gonna be a mass movement
they're not gonna be you know they're
not gonna be demonstrations in the
streets they're not going to be
revolutions asking for speed limits to
be imposed we all know there's an elite
level of government that deals these
things
partly because main theme of this video
nobody cares
you're not gonna get broad-based
engagement and support we all resign
ourselves of the fact there's a small
number of people with expert opinion and
engagement these issues who are gonna
sit down and research it and negotiate
and discuss well should the speed limit
be 60 or 40 on this street or that
Street we're gonna look at the
statistics for different types of
accidents in different contexts we're
going to come to that but we feel some
comfort in imagining that there is
sufficient expertise in our government
that there are spits there's sufficient
engagement from some small elite of
highly educated people to make those to
make those tactical decisions and with
these kinds of issues that are of
tremendous
moral significance and tremendous
political significance
I can guarantee you today in 2018 there
is no such a lead there is no there is
no course of opinion no matter how small
there isn't the bare minimum of a few
dozen intellectuals who are engaged with
these issues who have the expertise who
have the confidence to sit down and
discuss these things that really matter
so I've said this about First Nations
politics my claim is not that everyone
should learn Cree or that everyone
should learn a Jib way my claim is not
that everyone should learn Mohawk or any
way not even one of them nor all of them
my claim is somebody has to and if not
you then who I can't claim that everyone
should care about the disaster that is
Cambodia my claim is somebody asked you
if not you if not me then who